# Options File Format

The options file is a JSON file with configuration needed by the program.

## Configurations

The options file's root element is an object.

The simplest options file is the following:

```json
{ }
```

### Input metadata file

The program uses a JSON file as input, generated by another project: [standard-template-generator](https://github.com/genexuslabs/standard-template-generator).

This file must be indicated in the options file as follows:

```json
{
    "metadataFilePath": "test/input_metadata.json"
}
```

### Output files

The program produces three output files:
 - The "not implemented" TypeScript file containing an empty implementation of all missing types and funcions.
 - The Angular generator's type mappings JSON file.
 - The Angular generator's index file containing all the exports for types and functions.

These files are indicated with `"notImplementedOutputFilePath"`, `"angularMappingsOutputFilePath"` and `"angularIndexOutputFilePath"` as follws:

```json
{
    "notImplementedOutputFilePath": "out/not_implemented.ts",
	"angularMappingsOutputFilePath": "out/angular_metadata.json",
	"angularIndexOutputFilePath": "out/angular_index.ts",
}
```

### Angular mappings settings

The section "angularMappings" contains settings required for producing the correct Angular mappings output.

#### Modules default path

Indicates the path to the not-implemented functions.

```json
{
	"angularMappings": {
        "defaultModulesPath": "@genexus/web-standard-functions/dist/lib-esm/not-implemented"
    }
}
```

#### Angular index output path

Indicates the path to the not-implemented functions.

```json
{
	"angularMappings": {
        "angularIndexPath": "@genexus/web-standard-functions/dist/lib-esm/index"
    }
}
```

### Already implemented types and functions

Those types and functions that already have an implementations should be declared in the "implemented" section.

Setting a type or function as implemented has effect on both of the output files:
 - Already implemented methods are not included in the "not implemented" output file
 - Implementation details (path, alias) are used to produce the Angular mappings.

Implemented classes must have the path where they are implemented:

```json
{
	"implemented": {
		"Directory": {
			"path": "@genexus/web-standard-functions/dist/lib-esm/fs/directory"
		},
		"File": {
			"path": "@genexus/web-standard-functions/dist/lib-esm/fs/file"
		}
	}
}
```

Standalone functions must have the path where they are implemented and also an optional alias, if the name was modified by the implementer:

```json
{
	"implemented": {
		"Core": {
			"members": {
				"LTrim": {
					"path": "@genexus/web-standard-functions/dist/lib-esm/text/ltrim",
					"name": "ltrim"
				}
			}
		},
		"GeneXus.SD.Media.Audio": {
			"members": {
				"Play": {
					"path": "@genexus/web-standard-functions/dist/lib-esm/media/audio/play",
					"name": "play",
					"alias": "playAudio"
				}
			}
		},
	}
}
```

### Ignored functions

Some methods and properties may not have an implementation in a given platform. To avoid including these items in the output files, a "ignored" seccion may be added to the options file.

```json
{
    "ignored": {
		"Core": ["metodo1", "metodo2"]
    }
}
```

### Disambiguations

Sometimes the name of a given function is ambiguous and cannot be generated as-is.

In these cases, a disambiguation must be provided in the "disambiiguated" section:

```json
{
    "disambiguated": {
		"GeneXus.SD.Media.Audio": {
			"Play": "playAudio"
		}
	}
}
```
